#summary Java library for mzTab
#labels Featured

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

----

= About mztab-java =

mztab-java can read, write and merge mzTab files. mztab-java is free, open-source software written in Java. mztab-java is used by the [MzTabExporter mztab-exporter] as well as the new PRIDE Converter to read and write mzTab files.

For a list of changes in the latest version of mztab-java see the [MzTabJavaReleaseNotes Release Notes].

----

= Getting mztab-java =

== SVN ==

The latest version of *mztab-java* can always be found in the SVN at [http://code.google.com/p/mztab/source/browse/#svn%2Fparser%2Fmztab-java%2Ftrunk%2Fsrc /parser/mztab-java/trunk].

To check out the latest version of mzTab using SVN use:

<code language="xml">
# Non-members may check out a read-only working copy anonymously over HTTP.
svn checkout http://mztab.googlecode.com/svn/parser/mztab-java/trunk mztab-java-read-only 
</code>

== Maven ==

The *mztab-java* library can easily be used in Maven projects. You can include the following snippets in your Maven pom file.
{{{
<dependency>
   <groupId>uk.ac.ebi.pride</groupId>
   <artifactId>mztab-java</artifactId>
   <version>1.0.6</version>
</dependency>
}}}

The *mztab-java* library can currently only be found in the [http://www.ebi.ac.uk EBI]'s maven repository:

{{{
<repository>
   <id>ebi-repo-snapshots</id>
   <name>The EBI internal repository</name>
   <url>http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~maven/m2repo</url>
</repository>
}}}

----

= Reading mzTab Files using mztab-java =

== Opening mzTab files ==

To open an mzTab file simply create a new _MzTabFile_ object:
{{{
File inputFile = new File(pathToTheInputFile);

// by creating the MzTabFile object the mzTab file
// is automatically parsed.
MzTabFile mzTabFile = new MzTabFile(inputFile);
}}}

== Reading Metadata ==

An mzTab file's metadata is represented through _Unit_ objects. As mzTab files can contain the results of multiple experiments every _Unit_ holds the meta-data of one of these experiments.

{{{
// units can be retrieved through their id
Unit unit = mzTabFile.getUnitMetadata("PRIDE_1234");

// units can also be retrieved by just passing one of
// their "child" elements such as f.e. a protein
Protein protein = mzTabFile.getProtein("P12345", "PRIDE_1234");

// this call will retrieve the same unit
unit = mzTabFile.getUnitMetadata(protein);
}}}

_Unit_ objects then provide Getter and Setter functions for all meta-data fields defined by the mzTab format specification.

== Retrieving Proteins ==

There are various methods to retrieve the proteins from a mzTab file.

{{{
// get a specific protein from a given unit
Protein protein = mzTabFile.getProtein("P12345", "PRIDE_1234"); # retrieves P12345 from the unit PRIDE_1234

// gets all proteins from a specific unit
Collection<Protein> unitProteins = mzTabFile.getUnitProteins("PRIDE_1234");

// gets all proteins in the mzTab file
Collection<Protein> allProteins = mzTabFile.getProteins();

// gets all proteins with the given accession
Collection<Protein> specificProteins = mzTabFile.getProtein("P12345");
}}}

== Retrieving Peptides ==

The functions to retrieve peptides are similar to the ones to retrieve proteins:

{{{
// retrieves all peptides for the given protein
Collection<Peptide> proteinPeptides = mzTabFile.getProteinPeptides(protein);

// it is also possible to retrieve all peptides supporting
// the identification of specific protein irrespective of the
// unit they were identified in.
Collection<Peptide> supportingPeptides = mzTabFile.getProteinPeptides("P12345");

// retrieves all peptides from a given unit
Collection<Peptide> unitPeptides = mzTabFile.getPeptides("PRIDE_12345");

// retrieves all peptides from the mzTab file
Collection<Peptide> allPeptides = mzTabFile.getPeptides();

// retrieves all peptides with a given sequence
Collection<Peptide> peptides = mzTabFile.getPeptidesForSequence("ABCDEFG");
}}}

----

= Writing mzTab Files using mztab-java =

To write mzTab files one simply creates a new _MzTabFile_ object, adapts the information using the *mztab-java* object model and calls the _MzTabFile_'s member function _toMzTab_.

{{{
// create the new MzTabFile object
MzTabFile mzTabFile = new MzTabFile();

// create a unit object to hold metadata
Unit unit = new Unit();
unit.setUnitId("PRIDE_1234");
unit.setDescription("Example for Google Code.");

// add contact objects
List<Contact> contacts = new ArrayList<Contact>();

Contact jg = new Contact();
jg.setName("Johannes Griss");
jg.setAffiliation("European Bioinformatics Institute");
contacts.add(jg);

unit.setContact(contacts);

// set the meta data
mzTabFile.setUnit(unit);

// add a protein
Protein protein = new Protein();
protein.setAccession("P12345");
protein.setUnitId("PRIDE_1234");
protein.setSpecies("Homo sapiens (Human)");

mzTabFile.addProtein(protein);

// add a peptide
Peptide peptide = new Peptide();
peptide.setAccession("P12345");
peptide.setUnitId("PRIDE_1234");
peptide.setSequence("ABCDEGH");

mzTabFile.addPeptide(peptide);

// get the mzTab formatted string
String mzTabString = mzTabFile.toMzTab();
}}}