#summary Short summary of changes in the mztab-java API.

----
*mztab-java version 1.0.5 - (7. March 2012)*
  * BUGFIX: Fixed two bugs that cause NULL pointer exceptions in case string values were set to NULL.

----
*mztab-java version 1.0.4 - (6. March 2012)*
  * NEW FEATURE: Updated to support mzTab version 0.8.
  * NEW FEATURE: Added additional checks to make sure the set values are valid.
----
*mztab-java version 1.0.3 - (24. November 2011)*

  * NEW FEATURE: Updated to support mzTab version 0.7. Renamed Subsample get/setQuantitationReagent to get/setQuantificationReagent.

----
*mztab-java version 1.0.2 - (14. November 2011)*

  * NEW FEATURE: Added additional constructor to SpecRef.
  * NEW FEATURE: Added function addSpecRef to Peptide and SmallMolecule to set spectrum references more easily.
  * BUGFIX: Fixed a bug in Unit::setMsFile that caused a null pointer exception.

----
*mztab-java version 1.0.1 - (14. November 2011)*

  * NEW FEATURE: Added support for mzTab version 0.6 (ms_file references in Unit, spec_refs in Peptide and SmallMolecule, optional positions in modifications)

----
*mztab-java version 1.0.0 - (4. November 2011)*

  * NEW FEATURE: Added additional function to generate mzTab string with a custom number of subsamples and optional columns.
  * NEW FEATURE: Protein, Peptide, and SmallMolecule function names made more consistent. *WARNING*: Several function names changed. Please do check your code when updating to this version.
  * BUGFIX: Custom columns were not written to the mzTab file if a custom column was added during editing.
  * BUGFIX: Quantitative values were not written to the mzTab file if a subsample was added during editing.
  * NEW FEATURE: Added support for '"' encapsulated fields.
  * NEW FEATURE: Incorporated changes proposed by Julian Uszkoreit. Changed all toMzTab functions to use StringBuffer for better performance.
  * First stable version of the mztab-java API
----