#summary Release notes of the mzTab specification.

*jmzTab version 3.0.2 - (12. Febreruary 2015)*
 *general refinements and bug fixing
 *removes from the mzTabCLI the need to separate the input and output directory from the file
 *allow parsing the file with the columns in different order to the one define in the specification

----
* mzTab Specification Document 1.0.0 - final version (20. June 2014)*
  * Final version 1.0.0 of the mzTab file format

----
*jmzTab version 3.0.0 - (1. August 2014)*
  * update version of the library to the Specification Document 1.0 RC 5 - (30. June 2014)
  * new modular version of the mzTab library. This version allows a easier integration in other projects because minimizes the number dependencies per module.
  * first version of mzIdentML converter
  * general refinements and bug fixing
  * update mzTab examples

----
* mzTab Specification Document 1.0 RC 5 - (11. December 2013)*
  * A completely updated version of the mzTab format specification
  * Version currently submitted to the PSI document process

----
*jmzTab version 2.1.5 - (5. December 2013)*
  * Fixed bugs
  * Add SmallMoleculeTest to generate a mztab file which including small molecule records.
  * Move conf/*.properties to src/resources/conf/*.properties, thus, the jar file will include these property files.
  * Create SearchEngineParam and SearchEngineScoreParam
  * Redefine ConvertProvider class
  * Update mzTab examples

----
*jmzTab version 2.1.4 - (5. November 2013)*
  * update metadata, add id number for some elements.
  * uploaded new mzTab example files (validated with jmzTab)

----
*jmzTab version 2.1.3 - (18. October 2013)*
  * export pride-q to mzTab
  * export PRIDE XML to mzTab

----
*jmzTab version 2.1.2 - (18. September 2013)*
  * Modify MZTabCommandLine and MZTabInspector
  * Allow user exchange the order of columns in table based section.

----
*jmzTab version 2.1.1 - (9. July 2013)*
  * modify table-style section header and record fill based on newest specification.
  * Add MZTabUtilTest and fixed a bug in parsing modification.
  * Add a lots of test cases.

----
*jmzTab version 2.1.0 - (14. Juny 2013)*
  * Reorganized the API package structure based on mzTab specification version 1.0 release candidate 4.
  * implement prideq export mztab

----
*jmzTab version 2.0.5 - (3. April 2013)*
  * Add simple GUI -- MZTabInspector
  * Update wiki documents.

----
*jmzTab version 2.0.4 - (25. March 2013)*
  * Modify MZTabErrorList
  * Modify command line interface
  * Create a MZTabFileChecker, which used to check MZTabFile internal constraints.
  * remove AbstractMZTabRecord to MZTabRecord

----
*jmzTab version 2.0.3 - (21. March 2013)*
  * fixed some bugs in model.
  * fixed command line interface and provide some demo (see demo.bat in testset directory)
  * modify assembly.xml, implement maven package command.

----
*jmzTab version 2.0.2 - (11. March 2013)*
  * modify MZTabFile, make the model package to a independent model.
  * modify MZTabFileParser, parse a text file and generate MZTabFile model.
  * finish PRIDE XML convert to mzTab
  * modify command line interface

----
*jmzTab version 2.0.1 - (4. March 2013)*
  * Enrich the methods of jmztab model.
  * Modify model, add property change listener into Metadata, SubUnit and MZTabColumnFactory. Create a OperationCenter used to operator property change event.
  * Finish MZTabFileMerger

----
*jmzTab version 2.0 - (26. February 2013)*
  * Reorganized the jmzTab API, based on mzTab specification version 1.0 release candidate 2.
  * add load function, load a table line into a record.
  * Rename PeptideRecord --> Peptide, ProteinRecord --> Protein,
  * SmallMoleculeRecord --> SmallMolecule
  * Alter Software, Email check level from error to warn
  * Add Command Line Interface, MZTabCommandLine
  * Add MZTabFile to buffered the tabFile into memory.

----
*jmzTab version 1.0.9 - (18. February 2013)*
  * Added support for the latest version of the mzTab specification:
  * BUGFIX: Fixed null pointer exception when accessing msFiles in a file that doesn't contain any.

----
*jmzTab version 1.0.8 - (21. May 2012)*
  * BUGFIX: Unit.setPublication() checks null values now.

----
*jmzTab version 1.0.7 - (4. May 2012)*
  * *CHANGED NAME*: Changed name from mztab-java to jmzTab. Packages are now uk.ac.ebi.pride.jmztab.
  * NEW FEATURE: Updated library to support mzTab 0.9.2
    * Only uses "NA" to report missing values
    * Added "smiles" and "inchi_key" columns to the small molecules section.

----
*mztab-java version 1.0.6 - (24. April 2012)*
  * BUGFIX: Test cases contained strings where the Tab character was not escaped.

----
*mztab-java version 1.0.5 - (7. March 2012)*
  * BUGFIX: Fixed two bugs that cause NULL pointer exceptions in case string values were set to NULL.

----
*mztab-java version 1.0.4 - (6. March 2012)*
  * NEW FEATURE: Updated to support mzTab version 0.8.
  * NEW FEATURE: Added additional checks to make sure the set values are valid.
----
*mztab-java version 1.0.3 - (24. November 2011)*

  * NEW FEATURE: Updated to support mzTab version 0.7. Renamed Subsample get/setQuantitationReagent to get/setQuantificationReagent.

----
*mztab-java version 1.0.2 - (14. November 2011)*

  * NEW FEATURE: Added additional constructor to SpecRef.
  * NEW FEATURE: Added function addSpecRef to Peptide and SmallMolecule to set spectrum references more easily.
  * BUGFIX: Fixed a bug in Unit::setMsFile that caused a null pointer exception.

----
*mztab-java version 1.0.1 - (14. November 2011)*

  * NEW FEATURE: Added support for mzTab version 0.6 (ms_file references in Unit, spec_refs in Peptide and SmallMolecule, optional positions in modifications)

----
*mztab-java version 1.0.0 - (4. November 2011)*

  * NEW FEATURE: Added additional function to generate mzTab string with a custom number of subsamples and optional columns.
  * NEW FEATURE: Protein, Peptide, and SmallMolecule function names made more consistent. *WARNING*: Several function names changed. Please do check your code when updating to this version.
  * BUGFIX: Custom columns were not written to the mzTab file if a custom column was added during editing.
  * BUGFIX: Quantitative values were not written to the mzTab file if a subsample was added during editing.
  * NEW FEATURE: Added support for '"' encapsulated fields.
  * NEW FEATURE: Incorporated changes proposed by Julian Uszkoreit. Changed all toMzTab functions to use StringBuffer for better performance.
  * First stable version of the mztab-java API
----