#summary Information on the developments around the mzTab file format for proteomics results.

= Introduction =

mzTab is a file format for proteomics _results_. It is not meant as a replacement for the PSI standard file formats mzIdentML and mzQuantML. mzTab files are only meant to hold the final results of proteomics experiments but not their evidence.

This Wiki holds information about the mzTab format as well as associated projects and tools that make the use of mzTab easier - for developers as well as end-users.

== File Format ==

mzTab is a tab-delimited text file format to report proteomics results. The mzTab file format is still under development and not yet stable. The *current format specification* can always be found in the mzTab SVN: 
 [http://mztab.googlecode.com/svn/specification/trunk/specification-document/mzTab%20format%20specification.doc mzTab format specification.doc] <br />
 [http://mztab.googlecode.com/svn/specification/trunk/specification-document/mzTab%20format%20specification.pdf mzTab format specification.pdf]

mzTab *example files* can also be found in the svn (see [ExampleFiles Example files]).

A quick introduction to the mzTab format is the *10 minute guide to mzTab* ([http://code.google.com/p/mztab/source/browse/specification/trunk/specification-document/The+ten+minute+guide+to+mzTab.pdf PDF], [http://code.google.com/p/mztab/source/browse/specification/trunk/specification-document/The+ten+minute+guide+to+mzTab.docx docx]). Additionally, the *mzTab Cheat sheet* ([http://code.google.com/p/mztab/source/browse/specification/trunk/specification-document/mzTab+cheat+sheet.pdf pdf], [http://code.google.com/p/mztab/source/browse/specification/trunk/specification-document/mzTab+cheat+sheet.docx docx]) provides a concise overview over all fields and columns defined in mzTab.

== mzTab parser ==

To make the usage and implementation of mzTab as easy as possible we try to provide parser libraries for various programming languages.

|| *Programming Language* || *Project* ||
|| Java || [jmzTab jmzTab] ||

== Tools ==

*mztab-exporter*: The [MzTabExporter mztab-exporter] exports PRIDE XML files to mzTab.